docs: update best practices (#22233)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/upgrade-recommendations.md

# Upgrade best practices

This page explains what we (the Renovate maintainers) recommend you do to update your dependencies.

We'll cover different situations like starting with a new project, or dealing with a project with five year old dependencies.
We also explain why you should update often, and how to nudge your team to actually update their dependencies.

## General recommendations

In general, we recommend that you:

- Run Renovate on every repository
- Enable the Dependency Dashboard (it's on by default)
- Update your dependencies often
- Read the changelogs for the updates
- Update to new `major` versions in good time
- Talk with your team about the update stategy

> If you think Renovate is too noisy, please read our [noise reduction docs](https://docs.renovatebot.com/noise-reduction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you think Renovate is too noisy, please read our [noise reduction docs](./noise-reduction.md).
```
isn't that file in same directory? so we should use relative link?

### Why updating often is easier, faster and safer

You may think that updating often is too noisy, and takes too much time.

> But updating regulary actually _saves_ you time, because:

Author: I think there's a spectrum of manual/automated updates, rough sketch:

- manually update with `npm update` when you remember it
- create checklist with timers/reminders to run `npm update` at set interval
- get bored of manual work, find a bot like Renovate
- get breaking update from the bot and get annoyed
- write test to cover the stuff that tends to break
- if tests pass: merge manually, if fail: find out why
- write more tests to cover more
- automerge updates when tests pass

So you start by doing everything yourself, and move further down the list to more automation. 

It's also okay to keep merging by hand, even if you have a full test suite, so you'll actually read the changelogs for the update. 😄

- Regular updates tend to be small
- Applying `major` updates is easier

> - You'll be ready for CVE patches

Author: ```suggestion
- You'll be ready for CVE patches
- You'll look for ways to automate the update process
```

You should update to `2`, then `3` and finally `4`.
Avoid updating from `1` directly to `4`.
Taking `major` updates in sequence allows you to read the changelogs/blogs for each `major` version, and learn why upstream made certain breaking changes.

Finally update your development tools.

You're done with the _technical_ side of things, but you still need to work on the _human_ side.
If you don't fix the human side, you'll end up with outdated dependencies again.
Keep reading to learn how to deal with the human side of things.

## Why developers avoid updating

Let's assume that most developers _want_ a project that's up to date.
So why are developers not updating their project?
Some reasons why developers may avoid updating the project:

- Developers get blamed when things break in production
- There are no tests, so merging updates is scary
- Slow tests
- Releasing a new version of the project must be done by hand
- Updating is a manual process
- The company doesn't allow developer time for updates
- The company has complex rules about when to update

In short, if updating is painful, developers will avoid it.
The solution is to make it easy and fast to update dependencies.

> Focus on the proces, not on the people.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Focus on the process, not on the people.
```

### Make updating easy and fast

> Insert recommendations from Renovate maintainers here on how to deal with a team that doesn't want to apply updates, arguments to convince people to update often, dealing with team dynamics, and so on.

Reviewer 2: I would focus on the things that help convince people to update - ideally dealing with a team that doesn't update for whatever reason is simply showing them that it is beneficial for everyone by being a role model. This enables these teams to look at what you're doing and then adapt these things for their process. 

Showing them how easy it is will make them want these easy processes, too. At least, that's my experience.

Author: How easy updates are also depends on the quality and coverage of tests. To make updating as easy as it should be you need:

- Renovate bot
- Dependency Dashboard
- Right team mentality
- Company understands _why_ updating is generally safer than holding back update
- Tests for the critical path of the program

Updating _can_ be easy, but you have to work hard to get to the easy stuff. 😄

# Upgrade best practices

This page explains what we (the Renovate maintainers) recommend you do to update your dependencies.

We'll cover different situations like starting with a new project, or dealing with a project with five year old dependencies.
We also explain why you should update often, and how to nudge your team to actually update their dependencies.

## General recommendations

In general, we recommend that you:

- Run Renovate on every repository

> - Enable the Dependency Dashboard (it's on by default)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use the Dependency Dashboard issue (it's on by default)
```

Taking `major` updates in sequence allows you to read the changelogs/blogs for each `major` version, and learn why upstream made certain breaking changes.

Finally update your development tools.

You're done with the _technical_ side of things, but you still need to work on the _human_ side.
If you don't fix the human side, you'll end up with outdated dependencies again.
Keep reading to learn how to deal with the human side of things.

## Why developers avoid updating

Let's assume that most developers _want_ a project that's up to date.
So why are developers not updating their project?
Some reasons why developers may avoid updating the project:

- Developers get blamed when things break in production
- There are no tests, so merging updates is scary
- Slow tests
- Releasing a new version of the project must be done by hand
- Updating is a manual process
- The company doesn't allow developer time for updates
- The company has complex rules about when to update

In short, if updating is painful, developers will avoid it.
The solution is to make it easy and fast to update dependencies.
Focus on the process, not on the people.

### Make updating easy and fast

> Insert recommendations from Renovate maintainers here on how to deal with a team that doesn't want to apply updates, arguments to convince people to update often, dealing with team dynamics, and so on.

Reviewer: 🤔

Author: I still need suggestions from the Renovate maintainers on our recommendations to deal with the team dynamics. 😉
